# Private-De-Novo-Drug-Creation

We train a convolutional variational autoencoder (CVAE) to convert three different types of discrete representations (SMILES, DEEP SMILES, SELFIES) of drug-like molecules to and from a multidimensional latent space. By making use of the advanced scheduling technique proposed by Fu et al. we avoid posterior collapse, allowing highly meaningful features to be extracted from the discrete representations. Without shaping our latent, we found the distribution of molecules in the latent space a gradient by chemical properties' (SAS, QED, logP) values; molecules with high values are located in one region, and molecules with low values are in another. These properties are important criterion for pre-clinical drug discovery, and thus being able to optimize drug-like molecules for them is imperative.

We secondly train a CVAE with an auxiliary network that allows the latent space to create gradient for a particular drug-like molecules' efficacy (IC50) against a particular subset of targets. Specifically, we model targets using the transcriptomic profiles of a target cell or cancer site. Using this methodology, we illustrate  we can more accurately predict IC50 scores from a particular drug latent representation against a particular transcriptomic profiles. We secondly show that by following the gradient in the latent space, we can optimize drug-like molecules efficacy against a particular target. We show these molecules can further be optimized in the latent space to achieve better SAS, QED, and logP scores as well. We then verify these novel candidate drugs by comparing them to existing compounds with known efficacy against the corresponding cancer type. 
We lastly train a separate Transformer decoder to map pretrained latent embeddings of molecules back to their chemical representations. We show that this separate and more powerful decoder can more effectively and easily map  diverse sets of latent representations back into compounds than the original decoder in the CVAE. As a result, we enable our model to more efficiently decode property-optimized of the latent space. 

We wish for our approach, which leverages the latest improvements in text generation from natural language processing, to be a step toward improving success rates of targeted drug discovery against cancers.

This work was done in completion of the MSc in Statistical Science at the University of Oxford.

